Welcome back.
How is that exercise does your brain heard from all this confusing sequence.
Let's actually start off with the recursive function this time because in this case the recursive function
is actually a lot simpler to think about.
All we would do with our recursive function is to say well the base case is going to say number four
and is going to equal
two.
If that's the case simply return
actually if we look at the sequence we see that if they indexes zero the answer is zero.
If the index is 1 The answer is 1.
And if the index is 2 then the answer changes to 1.
So instead our base case can maybe just simply be if an is less than 2.
We're always going to just turn whatever the end is.
So if we say 0 it's going to return 0 if we say one is going to return 1.
If we have an index higher than that well then we have to do some recursion and all we're going to do
here is have a now the return statement and say this function.
I know that this function is really really long.
We can probably make it shorter to just say fib.
And I notice that we don't need the iterative here.
That will make it a little shorter.
There ya know we're going to say is Fed is going to equal and minus one plus the same thing
minus two because remember the sum is always.
The answer is always the numbers 1 and 2 before it.
So we're just adding the numbers 1 and 2 before our sequence and that's it.
If we run this function let's say if we've Bonacci recursive 3 and I click run I get 2 because 0 1 2
3 is 2 let's do 8 which should give us 21 and I click Run or give 8.
I get 21 nice and if I do 0 I get 0.
If I do one I get one.
If I do too I should get one right here.
Nice and simple well I don't know about simple right.
You really have to get comfortable with this before you truly understand what's happening.
But I have a little diagram to help you here.
All we've done is simply this.
If I added 7 here are recursive function is going to get one less than 7 and 2 less than 5 and then
within those functions do the same thing one less than six to less than six.
Wanna send 5 to less than 3 and it's doing all of these.
All of these all these until we get to FEBE of 1 to where we have our base case that returns that number.
So this becomes one.
This also becomes one and then it keeps going keeps going keeps returning until we get to FEBE of 7.
Now this is a diagram that we're going to get back to but you see we're doing a lot of calculations
here.
But simply put this is all we're doing.
Now I said that the recursive approach is actually simple simpler than the iterative approach.
Let's have a look at what the iterative approach would look like.
We'll create an array and there's many ways of doing this.
This is my preferred way and this survey is going to have the initial items of the sequence 0 and 1.
And this is going to first of all return the array an item of.
And we're creating this array and then grabbing whatever index the user wants.
In our case if the user requests 0 or 1 we already have the array prefilled with zero and 1 and it's
going to return the same.
But we still need to calculate for all the other ones.
That's where we do a for loop and say Let I equal two because we're going to start adding when the index
is 0 1 2 to start filling the survey will say is less than an plus one or we can do equal share for
you want we'll leave it at that for now and we'll increment i plus plus.
And in this loop we're going to keep going until we hit the number of index that we're interested in
and all we're going to say is push
array I minus two plus re PI minus one.
Similar to what we did before.
We're just summing the previous two numbers and pushing it to the array.
All right.
Now let's see if this works.
I'm going to comment out this one and just do the iterative approach.
I get two for three.
What about index of eight.
I get 21 perfect.
And then if I do index of 0 and X of 1 and index of two should be one perfect.
Now I said that the recursive approach is simpler than the iterative approach.
Now that's my personal opinion.
You might not think that you might think that this was quite easy but to me this reads a lot nicer than
all this thing that we're doing.
And this is something we're going to get into in the next video where we talk about the tradeoffs between
the iterative and the recursive approaches to these problems and why maybe you're wondering right now
why would we ever write anything recursive.
If you find this confusing We'll get to that.
But the one thing I want to show you is something that we just learn here that is new to us.
What do you think the big-O of these two functions are.
Well in our iterative solution.
The big O is linear time right.
It's o of.
And basically we're just iterating through the loop and minus two times because we're skipping the first
two items which in turn makes it.
Oven.
But what about the recursive approach.
Remember the diagram I showed you.
That's a lot more calculations than just the seven rate.
We have a lot of function calls that happen in this case in the recursion solution.
It takes what we call exponential time the size of the tree exponentially grows when and increases if
Fibonacci number was eight we would have this tree as well as an other tree underneath the FEBE of 8
so what is the big go of that.
This is very exciting because we're learning about a new Big O notation.
We're learning about this one exponential time.
Which can be seen with recursive algorithms that solve a problem of size and 2 to the power of an if
we go to our big O Chichi this is 0 2 to the power of an ant.
And you see how much it increases.
That's pretty bad.
It's bigger than even 0 of and square the two nested for loops exponential time means every additional
element in the Fibonacci sequence.
We get an increase in function calls exponentially.
And here's a fun little trick although this is all of an the iterative approach.
This function because it's all of two to the power of an if I run this function let's say if we do 10
I get a result if I do 15 I still get a result.
What if I do 20 here.
All right.
It's starting to get bigger and bigger.
I do 30 if I do 40.
Do you see how much longer that took to calculate.
Because our time complexity is increasing more and more.
If I do forty three now you'll see that we're waiting and waiting and waiting for the calculation to
happen.
And eventually the browser comes up with the calculation as a bonus question and think about how many
calculations Fibonacci 43 required.
This Although might be more readable is not an ideal solution as you can see big time complexity is
pretty big.
And this is something that you might get asked in an interview and I know what you're thinking.
Andre you just taught us about recursion and it's not even good.
It's slow it's confusing.
Why would I ever want to use recursion.
In the next video I'm going to talk about this tradeoff.
Why would you ever use recursion over something that is enteritis.
Why would any sane person do that.
And as you find out there are some pros and cons and as a matter of fact a function like this such as
a Fibonacci Sequence and recursion can be made to all end using something like dynamic programming and
memorization which we're going to talk about.
Towards the end of this course and we're going to get back to this but let's finally answer the question
in the next video.
Why would you ever use recursion over something iterative.
I'll see in the next one.
Bebai.